---
layout: post
title: Obraz 0.2 Released
---

This release introduces an experimental plugin system.

What's new:

* Experimental plugin system
* Compatibility with Python 2.6-3.2

Please note, that the plugin system is very experimental. It may be changed
significantly in the future releases.

Having said that, let's see how to write plugins for Obraz. A plugin is a Python
file sitting in the `_plugins` directory inside your site. This file will be
sourced by Obraz before loading the site content.

A typical plugin should:

1. Define some loading or processing functions
2. Register these functions within Obraz

Let's create a simple plugin that automatically sets the layout of the blog
posts to the `posts_layout` parameter value of `_config.yml`.

File `_plugins/posts_layout.py`:

    def process_posts_layout(basedir, destdir, site):
        """Set default posts layout."""
        layout = site.get('posts_layout', 'post')
        for post in site.get('posts', []):
            post.setdefault('layout', layout)

    obraz.processors.insert(0, process_posts_layout)

That's all you need. `obraz` is a special variable that refers to the Obraz
module. You can see your plugin doing things in the output of Obraz:

    $ obraz
    Loaded 1 plugins
    Loading source files...
    Loaded 13 files
    Set default posts layout...
    Sort and interlink posts...
    Generate pages with YAML front matter...
    Copy static files...
    Site generated successfully

Please refer to the [source code][1] of Obraz for more info. Remember that it's
less than 500 lines!


  [1]: https://bitbucket.org/vlasovskikh/obraz/src/master/obraz.py

